[TATARA] You young ones
are persistent, aren't you?
Ah, very well.
If you must know the story,
I'm the one to tell it.
[HYAKUSHUBO] Gather near and
pay close attention, everyone.
[TATARA]
A long time ago.
Hm, actually, it wasn't
long ago at all.
Why do stories
always start that way?
[HYAKUSHUBO] Anyhow, the story
begins right here in Jutengai,
a thriving land
that is home to about
one hundred thousand Beasts.
The lord of Jutengai
had ruled for many years,
but then, one day, he announced
that he was going to
retire from his post
and reincarnate as a god.
He needed some time to
decide what sort of god
he wished to become, however.
Once he reached a decision,
he would determine which Beast
was worthy to become
the lord in his place.
[TATARA] His successor
had to be fair, honorable,
and, of course, strong.
The first candidate was
a Beast named Iozen.
[TATARA] Iozen was
fearless and valiant.
Many apprentices had sought
him out for his fighting prowess
and teaching ability.
He was also the proud
father of two sons,
Ichirohiko and Jiromaru.
[TATARA] Everyone was certain
he would be chosen.
[HYAKUSHUBO] However,
there was another candidate.
The Beast who would
challenge Iozen.
His name was Kumatetsu.
He was tall and shaggy,
with the appearance of a bear.
But he had the tireless
energy of a monkey,
dashing back and
forth as he fought,
swinging his scabbarded sword.
He and Iozen were
said to be equals.
[HYAKUSHUBO]
In terms of strength, anyway.
[TATARA] Kumatetsu's character
was a different story.
He was rough around the edges,
a bit crude, and often selfish.
He did not have
a single apprentice.
[HYAKUSHUBO] Yes, strong
fighter though he was,
he had no apprentice.
Nor did he have any sons.
[POLICEMAN A]
Come here.
[RUNAWAY GIRL A]
Leave me alone. Don't touch me.
[POLICEMAN A]
You're still minors.
[RUNAWAY GIRL B]
No, we aren't.
[POLICEMAN A]
Run away from home?
[RUNAWAY GIRL B] Geez,
we're just out for the night.
[REN panting]
[squeaks]
You're so tiny. What are you?
A baby mouse, maybe?
Hold on a sec.
Take it.
[squeaks]
[REN]
Go on.
[squeaks]
I don't think this is
where you belong.
Did you run away from home?
[squeaks]
That's what I did.
I'm all alone, just like you.
[MOVERS chatter indistinctly]
[MOVER B]
That's it for this room.
[REN]
Dad, I don't understand...
Where are you?
Why won't you just
come and get me?
I don't want to go
with these people.
[MALE RELATIVE A]
Ren, come on now. Let's go.
[MOVER C] I'm sorry, but...
what should we do with this?
[FEMALE RELATIVE] Oh.
We'll take that with us, thanks.
--[MOVER A, MOVER B grunt]
--[MOVER C] Sure.
--[MOVER A] Careful!
--[MOVER B] Got it.
[MALE RELATIVE A]
I know you miss your mother.
It was a tragic accident.
But with her gone,
it's only right
for her family to take you in.
[MALE RELATIVE B] Things will be
different than you're used to,
but you'll adjust, you'll see.
[FEMALE RELATIVE A]
We know this is hard for you,
but you're a big boy, right?
Just give it a little time
and I'm sure you'll
be happy with us.
[MALE RELATIVE A] Well?
Are you listening to us?
Say something.
Where's my dad?
I should be with him.
[MALE RELATIVE A]
No. Forget about him.
He's my dad.
I can't just forget him.
[FEMALE RELATIVE A]
Your mother obviously wanted to.
She divorced him.
We're your closest family now,
remember that.
You belong with us,
not your father.
[REN] Fine, then.
I'll go live by myself.
[MALE RELATIVE B]
Oh, you're just a child.
You can't live by yourself.
I don't need anybody's help!
Just watch.
I'll get strong and show you!
[MALE RELATIVE A]
Stop this nonsense!
You may be a kid, but I--
I hate you all!
You guys, my dad,
everything and everyone!
[MALE RELATIVE A]
Ren!
[MALE RELATIVE B]
Ren! Come back!
[car horn honks]
I hate everybody.
I hate them. I hate them.
I hate them all.
I hate everybody!
[PEOPLE gasping, murmuring]
[gasps]
I hate them.
Hate... them... Hate them.
[REN]
Hey, Chico.
I'm okay. Thanks for checking.
[CHICO squeaks]
[HOODED FIGURE] So what if
I don't have any apprentices.
I just have to be stronger
than Iozen, right?
All the rest is just
for show, anyway.
[TATARA] The lord sets high
standards, you know that.
You had one apprentice.
How long did he last?
[HOODED FIGURE]
A month. A week?
No, a day.
[TATARA] Not even a whole day!
Just the morning.
[HOODED FIGURE]
Yeah, well, he was a crybaby.
[TATARA]
Beggars can't be choosers.
I know! While we're here,
why don't you find
yourself a human
and make him your apprentice?
[HOODED FIGURE]
Hey, that's not a bad idea.
[TATARA]
Whoa, I was just kidding.
[HOODED FIGURE]
Hey.
I said hey!
[HOODED FIGURE]
What, are you dead or something?
[REN]
Go away.
[HOODED FIGURE] Talking.
That means you're alive, then.
Where's your mom, kid?
[REN]
Go away.
[HOODED FIGURE]
Or your dad. Where's he?
[REN]
Shut up.
[HOODED FIGURE]
Answer me!
Where are they?
[REN]
Shut up! Shut up! Shut up!
Say anything else
and I'll kill you!
Oh, wow. Now I'm scared.
[HOODED FIGURE] Let's take
a look at the little brat.
[REN grunts]
[whimpers]
What are you?
Aagh!
Not too bad.
Let's just get outta here.
Hey, kid. How about it?
You wanna come with me?
Huh?
[TATARA]
Huh?!
Ugh. Don't be
an idiot, Kumatetsu!
[car horn honks]
[CROWD chattering]
[REN] What the--?
I thought I saw...
A dream?
[gasps]
You're awfully young, kid.
Are you a runaway?
Ugh! Lemme go!
You shouldn't be here
without an adult
at this time of the night.
Get off me!
[POLICEMAN B] How can we
get a hold of your parents?
[POLICEMAN A] We'll have
them come and get you.
I won't go!
[POLICEMAN B]
Come with us, son.
You can't make me!
N-No!
[POLICEMAN B]
Wait! Stop!
[POLICEMAN A]
Come back here!
[REN pants]
--Quit running!
--Come on, kid!
[REN pants]
[POLICEMAN A]
Stop!
[POLICEMAN B]
Hey!
Lost him! Where is he?
[panting]
[POLICEMAN B]
Over there?
No, this way.
Huh?
Where am I? This doesn't
look like Shibuya.
[gasps]
[REN]
Wait... what?
[hooves clopping]
[CHICO squeaks]
--[REN gasps]
--CHICO squeaks]
[REN grunts]
[gasps]
[screams]
[REN grunting]
Huh?!
[indistinct chattering]
[whimpers]
[REN]
What? A wall?
But I swear I came in this way!
There's a way out, right?
[panting]
[REN panting]
[screams]
Who's the hairless one?
--Looks like a human kid.
--Let go of me!
What's he doin' here?
What d'ya say?
Wanna skin 'im and see what
we can get for his hide?
Yeah, we could, or we could
eat him, or put him in a cage.
What do you think?
Help! Someone help!
[HYAKUSHUBO]
Put the boy down.
[SCARY BEASTS]
Hm?
You should be
ashamed of yourselves.
Pft, stupid monks.
Who needs 'em?
[HYAKUSHUBO]
Don't pay any attention.
They're just bullies
who sound a lot tougher
than they actually are.
You don't need to be frightened.
Everything will be fine,
you'll see.
I'm Hyakushubo,
an apprentice monk.
This is Jutengai, which can only
be reached from your world
through a certain
pattern of paths.
Beasts and humans occupy
different worlds, you see.
Perhaps because we can
become gods and you cannot.
Poor boy, you must have wandered
here by mistake somehow.
But don't worry.
I'll see that you get safely
back to your own world.
[KUMATETSU]
Hey!
Huh?
[KUMATETSU] Ha, ha, ha!
You actually came!
[gasps]
[chuckles]
Ah, not bad for a human kid!
I knew I was right about you!
--C'mere!
--[yelps]
What are you doing?!
Can't you see he's
lost and frightened?
We should be kind to the boy!
You monks are all the same.
There are more important
things in the world
than kindness, you know!
I'm just saying you might
try not to be so rough.
It's not like he's gonna break!
And he's not lost, either.
He's my apprentice, as of today.
--What?
--[CHICO squeaks]
Oh, whoops. Didn't I tell you?
Your apprentice?
But he's a human child!
[KUMATETSU] What do I care if
he's a human or a toilet brush?
An apprentice is an
apprentice, got it?
[TATARA]
Whoa, whoa, whoa!
What's he doing here?
I told you I was kidding!
Tatara, tell me what's going on.
The lord told him
that if he really wants
to be the successor,
he should start by
finding an apprentice.
He's not like Iozen, though.
I mean boys aren't
exactly lining up
for the right to
call him "Master."
Well, anyway, we were
out amusing ourselves
in the human world when we
came across this youngling.
And, what, you kidnapped him?
We didn't take him.
He followed us.
[HYAKUSHUBO]
Then do the responsible thing
and take him back
where he belongs.
Why should I?!
What's so wrong with
showing interest
in a promising youngster?!
Huh?!
Come on!
[REN gasps]
[HYAKUSHUBO] What is he
thinking? This is crazy.
I never knew he wanted
an apprentice so badly.
He doesn't.
This is about competition.
It's about winning
against Iozen.
You know how he is.
Yes, I do.
Being lord of a world and
then ascending to godhood
probably means
very little to him.
Heh! Can you imagine
if he did reincarnate?
What would he be
the god of, do you think?
Scrub brushes, maybe?
Oh, or perhaps toilets?
Honestly, my main concern
is for the human child.
How will he fare in
Kumatetsu's custody?
I don't know. Not my problem.
[HYAKUSHUBO sighs]
[REN]
Huh...?
What do you mean apprentice?
[KUMATETSU]
It means from now on,
I'm the one who's
gonna feed you.
[REN]
It's not like I asked you to.
[KUMATETSU]
You sleep there.
One thing.
I hate crybabies.
No use for them.
You cry and I'll kick you out.
I won't cry.
Then we should get along.
But that doesn't mean
I'm saying I'll be your
apprentice, because I'm not.
[KUMATETSU]
So why'd you follow me?
I don't know.
You don't really
have to say it.
I know you've got nowhere to go.
[REN]
You feeling sorry for me?
Why would I?!
So you gotta make your
own way, what's the big deal?
Plenty of people do it.
Doesn't make you special.
[KUMATETSU]
What's your name, anyway?
I'm not telling.
Huh?
[REN]
That's personal information.
Fine! How old are ya?
Oh.
[KUMATETSU chuckles]
Well, now you're a
nine-year-old named Kyuta.
Hey! You can't just
make up a name for me!
[KUMATETSU]
Really? Sounds like I just did.
Well. I'm going to
sleep now, Kyuta.
Goodnight.
[KYUTA sighs]
[REN'S MOTHER]
Ren.
[KYUTA]
Huh?
I made a ham omelet.
I know how much you love them.
You should eat
before it gets cold.
'Kay.
[KYUTA sobs quietly]
[yawns]
[grunts]
He ran away.
No big surprise.
I thought he might.
[yawns]
[gasps]
[KUMATETSU chuckles]
[KUMATETSU]
Not gone after all!
[KYUTA grunts]
--[KYUTA screams]
--[CHICO squeals]
Wha--?!
Breakfast time!
[KYUTA]
Stop already!
[KUMATETSU]
How long are you gonna pout?
Guess you're not
a morning person, huh?
Well, go on then. Eat up.
Eggs fresh as they get.
I eat 'em raw.
They're best that way.
What are you waiting for?
Not hungry?
Of course I am!
Well then, eat!
I don't eat eggs raw!
[KUMATETSU]
Huh?
How can you?
It's disgusting.
You don't know what
you're talking about!
Just watch!
[slurping, chomping]
Hah!
[KYUTA]
Yup. Disgusting.
--You're gonna eat it, anyway!
--Ew! Close your mouth!
An apprentice can't say no!
I am not your apprentice!
Sit down and eat!
No way!
If you won't eat the food
I put in front of you, I'll...
Yeah? You'll what?
[KUMATETSU]
I'll shove it down your throat!
This is foolish.
--Leave the boy alone.
--[KYUTA] I hate you!
Wait, I've got another idea.
Take the kid back
where he belongs.
You'll both be better off!
Where'd he go?
I hate you and your stupid eggs!
[KUMATETSU]
Get back here! Kyuta!
[TATARA, HYAKUSHUBO]
Kyuta?
[KUMATETSU]
Hey!
[KYUTA] I'm not ever
gonna be your apprentice!
[KUMATETSU]
Stop running, brat!
[PAINTER BEAST B]
Over that way a little.
[PAINTER BEAST A]
Okay. Uh... like this?
Does this look right?
[KUMATETSU yells]
Which way? [growls]
[KYUTA] There has to be
a way back home somewhere...
[clanging]
[BLACKSMITH BEASTS grunting]
[KYUTA gasps]
[FEMALE CLERK BEAST]
Here you go, dear.
Yum. Do you want some?
Well, alright!
That's fine by me.
Then it's all mine!
Let's see, I think I'll
start with an orange.
[KYUTA gulps]
Ahhh...
[gasps]
[JIROMARU]
Nope. Changed my mind.
It'll be better if I
start with the cherry.
Ahhh...
[gasps]
[ICHIROHIKO]
Jiromaru. Look! There's Father.
[JIROMARU]
Huh? Hey, Dad!
[IOZEN] Ichirohiko, Jiromaru.
Are you training hard, boys?
--Yep.
--Yes.
Would you demonstrate more
techniques for us sometime?
Of course. How about now?
--Master.
--[JIROMARU, ICHIROHIKO gasp]
[IOZEN]
Never mind.
It looks like it will
have to wait until later.
You always say that!
Okay!
I'm sorry, boys.
Huh...?
Kumatetsu.
[KYUTA gasps]
Oh. Hi, Iozen.
From what I hear, you've finally
found yourself an apprentice.
Yeah, but I lost
track of him somehow.
You seen him around?
He's a little kid.
About this high.
He's a child?
But you're practically
still a child yourself.
[KUMATETSU]
Tch. Aw, what do you know?
I'm speaking as the
father of two children.
It isn't easy.
You might not have what it takes
to be a good guardian.
Not everybody does.
[KUMATETSU]
Yeah, whatever.
When I decide to do something,
it gets done one way or another.
Now, where is that Kyuta?
He's quicker than I thought
he'd be, for a human kid.
Wait, what was that?
You aren't actually saying that
your apprentice is a human?
[APPRENTICE BEAST B]
Master!
Ow! Hey!
Let me go!
[BEAST WOMAN A]
A human?
[BEAST MAN B]
What is it doing in our world?
A human boy? Really?
What's one of them
doing in Jutengai?
Ah! There you are!
[IOZEN]
Listen to me, Kumatetsu.
You don't know what
you're getting yourself into.
What are you talking about?
I'm just taking an apprentice.
You know why we don't
live among the humans.
They appear weak,
but they harbor Darkness
within their hearts.
What if this boy gets
possessed by that Darkness?
Have you to stopped
to consider that?
He could grow up to
become a terrible monster.
Monster? Heh!
He's just a scrawny kid.
There's no monster in that boy.
Think! If you do this, it will
affect more than just you.
I decide what to do with
my own apprentice, got it?
I'm warning you, don't do it!
For the sake of all
Beasts in Jutengai!
[BEASTS chatter]
Ha, just listen to you.
"For the sake of all Beasts!"
Like you think you're
already the next lord.
What?
If you're so worried about what
I'm doing with my apprentice,
why don't you stop me?
We can fight for the
lordship right now.
Huh?
[BEAST MAN D]
Iozen versus Kumatetsu!
[BEAST MAN E]
Now there's a battle!
[BEAST MAN F]
Make room, people!
[BEAST WOMAN C]
The winner gets the lordship?
Quick, we need to stop him!
Crush him, Kumatetsu!
I bet on Iozen.
Yeah, so do I.
Uh-huh, me too.
If we all bet the same,
there's no bet!
[IOZEN sighs]
[ICHIROHIKO]
I'll take that.
Stand back, you two.
[BEAST MAN G]
Kumatetsu's a disgrace.
[BEAST MAN H]
What does he think he's doing?
[BEAST MAN I]
He has no manners!
[BEAST MAN J]
Be more like Iozen!
[BEASTS booing]
--Hey!
--Follow fight etiquette!
He couldn't care less
about fight etiquette.
That fool.
He's managed to turn
the whole crowd against him.
A sword fight?
Is someone gonna die?
The lord forbids us
to unsheathe our swords.
They're even tied shut
in the scabbards
to prevent anyone from doing so.
Oh, okay.
[APPRENTICE BEAST B grunts]
Hey! Stop! Get back here!
Where is he?
[BEASTS cheer]
[TATARA laughs]
A fool. A complete fool.
[TATARA] It's how he
intimidates his opponent.
[KYUTA grunts]
Huh?
[BEAST MAN K]
Whoa!
[BEAST MAN L]
Way to dodge him, Iozen!
[KUMATETSU chuckles]
Challenging the other
guy to hit him now?
[BEASTS cheer]
[IOZEN grunting]
[KUMATETSU chuckles]
[grunts]
[gasps]
[KUMATETSU groans]
[KUMATETSU grunts]
--Yeah!
--All right!
--Idiot!
--[laughs]
[KUMATETSU growls]
[grunts]
Ah!
--[BEASTS cheer]
--[KUMATETSU groans]
[cheering continues]
[IOZEN]
Hmm?
[KUMATETSU grunts]
We're not done yet!
[gasps]
--He's huge!
--[JIROMARU gasps]
Don't worry, boys.
[KUMATETSU growls]
[BEASTS]
Ready?
Fight!
[KUMATETSU, IOZEN grunt]
[BEASTS cheer]
--[KUMATETSU, IOZEN grunt]
--[BEASTS cheer]
[KUMATETSU, IOZEN grunt]
[cheering continues]
[IOZEN growls]
[KUMATETSU growls]
[IOZEN grunting]
[BEAST MAN M]
Get out of the way!
[BEAST MAN N] Iozen can't
seem to push him back!
[BEAST MAN O] He's not going
to lose the fight, is he?
[KUMATETSU growls]
[IOZEN grunts]
Iozen, we believe in you!
[BEAST MAN P]
Iozen!
[CROWD]
Iozen! Iozen! Iozen! Iozen!
[KYUTA]
The crowd.
They're all cheering
for the other guy.
[KYUTA]
No one's rooting for him.
He's all alone.
[chanting continues]
[IOZEN grunts, growls]
[KUMATETSU growls, gasps]
[KUMATETSU grunts]
[cheering]
[KUMATETSU]
Ugh. [growls]
You want to continue?
Keep fighting.
I'm not stopping
till I beat you!
I think you've had enough.
No. Not yet. I'm not done!
[KUMATETSU yells]
[KUMATETSU grunts]
--[KUMATETSU pants]
--[BEAST MAN P] Iozen!
[BEASTS] Iozen! Iozen!
Iozen! Iozen! Iozen!
[KUMATETSU pants]
[KUMATETSU, IOZEN grunting]
[KUMATETSU grunts]
Yeah! You show him, Dad!
[BEASTS cheering]
[KUMATETSU grunts]
Kumatetsu.
[growls]
Fight, Kumatetsu!
[KUMATETSU gasps]
[BEAST MAN Q]
Who was that?
[BEAST MAN R] Someone's actually
rooting for that loser?
[BEAST WOMAN E]
Who would do that?
[KUMATETSU]
Huh?
Don't let him win!
Kyu--
[grunts]
[BOTH gasp]
It's all over!
[LORD]
That's enough.
[KUMATETSU grunts]
[gasps]
Of course, Lord.
[LORD] I'd like
an explanation for this.
It's not time for the battle.
Nor will it be until I've
decided what god I will become.
Forgive me, sir.
Kumatetsu brought a human here.
I ask that he be punished.
Huh. Judging by his current
state of unconsciousness,
I would say you've already
seen to that without my help.
Whatever.
I don't care what you say,
Kyuta is my apprentice now.
Oh-ho! I guess the
punishment didn't take.
You're going to allow
him to keep the boy?
I don't believe he can handle
such a responsibility.
I will take the
responsibility.
After all, it was
at my instruction
he sought an apprentice.
But if the Darkness he carries
should consume him--
[LORD]
Not every human is ultimately
possessed by the Darkness.
Some are able to
escape that fate.
Sir, please!
Why are you always so lenient
when it comes to Kumatetsu?
[LORD]
We're finished here.
There's nothing
more to discuss.
[BEASTS groan]
That's it, then. The lord
was generous with you.
I hope you appreciate it.
[KUMATETSU groans]
[gasps]
[KUMATETSU grunts, yells]
[KYUTA]
You're really strong.
Hah. What fight
were you watching?
[KYUTA] If you can make me
strong like you are, then okay.
I'll stay here and
be your apprentice.
[KUMATETSU]
Hmph. Yeah, sure.
You'll just run away again.
These eggs aren't rotten
or anything, right?
[CHICO squeaks]
[KYUTA retches]
Wow. Yummy.
[KUMATETSU chuckles]
Now we're in business!
I hope you are ready
for some serious training!
[laughs]
[KYUTA retches]
[KUMATETSU laughs]
[HYAKUSHUBO]
Huh?
Well. You clean up
nicely, Kyuta.
Shut up.
Now. Watch and learn.
--[KUMATETSU grunts]
--[KYUTA gasps]
Eh, that wasn't bad.
[KUMATETSU]
Got that? Your turn.
What do you mean?
Go on. Give it a try.
Yah! Nnyah!
[gasps]
[TATARA laughs]
Yah! Ugh! Chyah!
Ow! Ow-ow-ow!
[gasps]
Stop it. That's enough!
Well? What am I doing wrong?
Heh! You crack me up!
What aren't you doing wrong?
It's my first time, okay?
I'll get better!
[TATARA cackles]
"It's my first time."
No, you don't say!
--[TATARA laughs]
--[KUMATETSU] Hey! Shut up!
[HYAKUSHUBO] He can't just
look at you and then do it.
You have to explain
how it's done.
[KUMATETSU]
Explain?
[HYAKUSHUBO] That's what
it means to be the master.
Then I'll explain. Listen up.
First, you grip
your sword. 'Kay?
Then it's a woosh
and a bang!
Got it?
Ahh... I-I don't know.
It's easy.
Grip! And then it's
just a woosh and a bang.
Okay?
G-Grip it?
Yeah, like this.
Grrr-ip!
[KYUTA growls]
No, no, no, no, no.
Grrr-- See?
[KYUTA]
Gri--
No, no, no!
Grriiip! Yeah?
[KYUTA]
Grip!
No, no, no, no!
--GRRRIP IT!
--[TATARA slurps]
--[KYUTA] GRRRIP IT!
[KUMATETSU]
GRIP IT!
[KYUTA]
[KUMATETSU]
No, no, no, no!
This is beginner stuff!
How hard can it possibly be?!
[growls]
This isn't working!
What?
[KYUTA] I can't learn if you're
not gonna teach me right!
What's there to teach?
Just do it!
[KYUTA]
I can't.
Do it!
Ah! Stubborn boy!
Find a way to
explain it to him.
Try using different words.
Fine. I'll think of some,
but I don't see what's wrong
with the ones I used.
You need to grab hold of
the sword that's in here.
In your soul.
You have one, don't you?
[KYUTA]
What? You don't make any sense.
How much clearer do you
need me to make it for you?
You grab the sword
that's in your soul.
Okay. Now, do it.
Do it!
[KUMATETSU]
Hmph.
[HYAKUSHUBO] Hey, wait a minute,
where are you going?
Come now.
Yelling and walking off?
Not the best teaching technique.
Kumatetsu.
Come back, Kumatetsu.
[KYUTA]
Hmph.
A sword in my soul? That's dumb.
[TATARA]
Hey, kid. Just go home.
Huh?
Apprentices train for five,
even ten years sometimes.
You'll never make it, I mean
even you must realize that.
Quit wasting your time.
Go find a human
to take care of you.
There's no place for you here.
Do yourself a favor and
go back to your world.
[chickens clucking]
Where'd he go?
He left.
He said we shouldn't expect
to see him for a few days.
What do I do?
As his apprentice, I mean.
[HYAKUSHUBO] Well, you clean
the house, and do the laundry,
and the cooking.
So eager to help now.
Is this about yesterday?
[KYUTA]
No, not really.
[HYAKUSHUBO coughs]
Don't mind him.
He has a temper.
Nobody is going to deny that.
But the nice thing about him
is he forgets everything
the next day.
I really wouldn't let it
concern you too much.
[KYUTA]
It isn't about yesterday.
They'll wrinkle if
you do it like that.
You want to give them
a good shake first.
[KYUTA]
Oh.
[HYAKUSHUBO]
Hmm.
[MALE CLERK BEAST] I've never
had a human customer before.
Really? Not ever?
How long are you staying, then?
I don't know.
He's not a very
polite young man.
Bah! Humans are all hopeless.
Everyone knows that.
[ICHIROHIKO grunts]
[GIRL BEASTS sigh]
[applause]
[ICHIROHIKO sighs]
[GIRL BEASTS chatter, giggle]
[ICHIROHIKO]
Huh?
[JIROMARU]
Human! Monster!
[KYUTA grunts]
I heard what my dad
said about you people.
Humans are bad. Someday,
they become monsters!
Well, I'm not gonna wait.
I'll hunt you down now!
Stop it. Just leave him alone.
Why should I?
You see what a weakling he is.
He'll never become a monster.
I think I can keep my brother
from attacking you again.
I'll try, at least.
[JIROMARU]
You better not tell on me.
I'll know if you do!
[ICHIROHIKO]
That's enough. Let's go.
[JIROMARU] I don't like wimps.
They're losers.
Everybody should
know how to fight.
Hey! Do you even know how
strong my brother is, human?
He can move things
without touching them!
Show the wimp what you can do!
No way!
You know my power
isn't for showing off.
Father says that I should always
try to use it to help people.
And I do what Father tells me.
Because if I do, I know
I'll be like him someday.
A great swordsman.
One with a long
snout and big fangs!
Me, too!
When I grow up, I'm gonna
be a good fighter like Dad!
[ICHIROHIKO]
Let's go.
[JIROMARU]
'Kay!
[BOY BEASTS laugh, chatter]
[GIRL BEASTS giggles]
He thinks I'm just a weakling.
Well... he's wrong.
[KUMATETSU sighs]
Huh?!
Hey, what happened?!
Where's all my stuff?!
Who cleaned up in here?!
Who do you think?
Your apprentice.
I liked it just fine
the way it was!
Huh?
What happened to your face?
[KUMATETSU]
Heh. You got beat up, huh?
I bet you didn't even
put up a decent fight.
Ha! Pathetic.
You're right.
I'm weak and pathetic.
I can't fight or hold a sword.
At least you know.
Try looking in a mirror.
I'm not the only one
around here who's pathetic.
Huh?
[KYUTA] He wakes up early.
You stay in bed till noon.
He's busy all day
doing useful stuff.
You don't ever
seem to do anything!
I assume the "he" you're
talking about is Iozen?
[KYUTA] He seems tidy,
polite, and dependable.
You're sloppy, rude,
and irresponsible.
And your point would be?
[KYUTA] Just that it makes
total sense to me now
that you can't beat him.
[KUMATETSU]
Say it again, brat!
Go on! Say it again!
[KYUTA]
I'll say it a hundred times!
You're a big, stupid loser!
[HYAKUSHUBO]
Calm down, both of you.
[KUMATETSU] Don't talk to
your master like that!
[KYUTA] Then start acting
more like a master!
[KUMATETSU]
What?!
[KYUTA]
You heard me!
You get angry too easily!
[KUMATETSU]
Hey!
[KYUTA]
And you give up too easily!
[KUMATETSU] It's not
your place to criticize me!
You're my apprentice.
You have to do what I say!
[KYUTA]
Never!
I don't want to end up a stupid,
old loser like you!
[KUMATETSU]
You're a little brat!
[KYUTA]
Well, you're a big idiot!
[HYAKUSHUBO]
Try to forgive him, Kyuta.
He's new to this,
just like you are.
[TATARA] Come on, Kumatetsu,
let's take a walk.
[KUMATETSU]
Let go! Let go!
Brat! Brat! Brat!
I'm doing the best I can,
and what do I get?!
He doesn't show me any respect!
[TATARA]
You've done enough.
Just kick him out, already.
[KUMATETSU]
I do useful things, you know!
I chop wood and
take care of the chickens.
I do odd jobs.
What more does he want from me?!
[TATARA] I'm telling you,
it's time to end this.
[KUMATETSU] He has no right
to talk to me like that!
You agree, don't you?
Well, don't you?!
Oh, absolutely.
Now don't you see how
easy it was being alone?
Being alone is great!
There's no responsibility,
you don't have to justify
your actions to anyone else,
you don't have to
hear hard truths
that will just make you angry.
[KUMATETSU growls]
Uh, forget that last one, okay?
[KUMATETSU]
Arrrgh!
[LORD]
Training so late into the night?
What incredible dedication
you have, Kumatetsu.
Lord, I--
It's good for a master
to show his apprentice
that training never stops,
no matter your
age or experience.
[KUMATETSU]
Uh, right. My thoughts exactly.
Here. You can take these as
a reward for your efforts.
[KUMATETSU]
What are they?
Letters of introduction.
[KUMATETSU]
What for?
[LORD]
You'll be taking your apprentice
on an instructional journey.
If you present those letters,
you will be able to meet
the lord of every land.
[KUMATETSU]
But I--
[LORD]
They're all very wise men.
They will be able
to give you insight
regarding the nature
of true strength.
[KUMATETSU]
But, sir...
[BOTH gasp]
[LORD]
Bon voyage! Safe travels!
[TATARA groans]
[TATARA] There goes your chance
to kick the kid out.
If you do it now,
you'll be disobeying
the lord's direct instructions.
--[KUMATETSU] Too slow.
--[KYUTA grunts]
[yelps]
[KYUTA pants]
[KUMATETSU]
Too slow.
Too slow! Slow, slow, slow!
Geez!
There's nothing wrong
with eating slowly.
[HYAKUSHUBO]
We humbly seek your counsel.
What is true strength?
[KOKURAN DOJIN] I don't have
the powerful muscles
that many fighters do.
However, I do have the ability
to create illusions.
And sometimes there can be
more truth within an illusion
than in reality.
Therefore, true strength is...
True strength is...?
[ALL gasp]
[KOKURAN DOJIN]
Why, it's an illusion!
[laughs]
Tch!
[HYAKUSHUBO]
What is true strength?
[SHAKO INSHI]
What good is strength?
That's what I'd like to know.
I possess the power
of telekinesis,
which may seem like
strength to you.
But there is something even
my ability is powerless against.
Therefore, true strength is...
True strength is...?
[SHAKO INSHI]
Could you do me a favor?
It's my back. I really could
use a good massage.
Telekinesis does squat
for lower back pain.
[grunts]
[scoffs]
[ZABO SENSEI]
Strength?
I fear you've come a long way
to ask the wrong person.
I do not try to be strong.
I try to simply be.
Rain or shine, I sit here
like any other rock.
Why a rock?
To forget about time,
and the world, and myself.
Only by doing so can I transcend
the confines of reality.
Thus, true strength is...
True strength is...?
[gasps]
[HYAKUSHUBO]
Still and silent, like a rock.
[KUMATETSU grunts]
[KYUZEN NENSHI]
True strength?
I don't like to get
philosophical.
The key to fishing is to
strike when the time is right.
Ahhh...
The fishermen who
wait for their opening
and act at the opportune moment
catch the most fish.
[gulps]
--Therefore, true strength is...
--Yes, true strength is...?
All in the timing!
[HYAKUSHUBO, KYUTA]
Ah!
[TATARA yells]
Don't worry. I avoid
eating my guests.
[yawns]
[KUMATETSU] Are we actually
supposed to learn something
by listening to this nonsense?
[TATARA] I learned that almost
being eaten isn't fun.
Does that count?
[KYUTA] The point is that
strength can be a lot of things.
I thought they all had
interesting stuff to say.
[KUMATETSU]
Ooh! Maybe you'd be better off
holding a book than a sword!
[KYUTA]
Maybe I would!
I'm sure I'd learn a lot more
from reading than from you.
At least a book will tell me
more than "woosh" and "bam."
[KUMATETSU] Some things you
gotta figure out on your own!
[KYUTA]
Because you can't explain it!
[KUMATETSU]
Because you're too stupid!
[KYUTA] Because you're
terrible at teaching!
[KUMATETSU]
Because you're terrible...
[HYAKUSHUBO] No matter
how tired you are,
you two can always find
the energy to argue.
[TATARA] Just listening to
you guys is exhausting me.
[KYUTA]
Hey!
[HYAKUSHUBO] Having trouble
sleeping, are you?
Do you think I'm just
wasting my time with all this?
You're letting him get to you.
He says that I'm stupid.
Well, I can tell you
that isn't true.
Just look at what
you've done so far.
You didn't know anything
about housework,
but you got the knack
of it right away.
You work hard and
you learn quickly.
I think you're far from stupid.
I don't know.
[HYAKUSHUBO] The problem in
this case lies with Kumatetsu.
His fighting techniques
are like him.
A little bit rough.
Definitely on the messy side.
But strong.
He had no parents
or master to teach him.
[KYUTA]
Huh?
He had to become strong
without anybody's help.
In some ways,
that's his greatest asset.
In others, however,
it's his greatest failing.
Because he learned
everything independently,
he can now neither take
instruction nor give it.
I can see how
that would happen.
Despite all that,
he's still capable of wisdom
every once in a while.
Like what he said earlier.
When he said there
are some things
I have to figure out on my own?
[HYAKUSHUBO] Yes. I believe
there was some truth to that.
[KUMATETSU]
I don't know how to teach him.
I just don't.
[TATARA] I never thought
I'd hear the great Kumatetsu
crying over some
cocky little kid.
Hey, I'm not crying.
You were just like him
when you were younger.
A weak little kid
with a big mouth.
You thought you already knew
everything there was to know.
[KUMATETSU] There weren't
any decent masters.
[TATARA] Nobody thought
you were worth anything.
Except the lord.
They all looked at you
and saw a difficult student
they didn't want to
waste their time on.
Fools!
Just thinking about them is
still enough to make me mad.
[TATARA]
Funny you say that.
Because you're in
their shoes now.
[KUMATETSU]
Huh?
Well. Personally, I still think
it would be best for everybody
if he just left.
If you really want to continue
with this idiocy, though.
Remember how you started out.
Try thinking about
yourself as a kid.
It might help you
understand him better.
[TATARA yawns]
[TATARA]
And I'm going to sleep.
[CHICO squeaks]
I just have to figure
it out on my own, huh?
[sighs]
And how does that work?
Huh?
[squeaking]
Eep, eep, eep!
I think that was pretty good.
[squeaks]
No? Really?
[laughs]
[REN'S MOTHER]
Be your master. Do as he does.
Hey, Chico, you hear that?
Be your master.
Be your master...
[KUMATETSU grunts]
[KUMATETSU groans]
[yawns]
[gasps, yawns]
[KUMATETSU]
Hm?!
[gasps]
Do as he does. Right.
[KUMATETSU grunting]
[KUMATETSU]
That's what I need to be doing.
[gasps]
[KUMATETSU grunting]
[KYUTA grunting]
[KYUTA yelps, yells]
[KUMATETSU]
Hm?!
[gasps]
Kyuta. What are you
up to in here?
[REN'S MOTHER]
Be your master. Do as he does.
Huh?
[KUMATETSU sniffs]
[KYUTA sniffs]
[gasps]
[KUMATETSU grunts,
bones crack]
[KYUTA grunts,
[TATARA]
Now what are they doing?
Are you making fun of me?!
No! I'm not!
What are you doing?!
It's nothing, okay?
[KUMATETSU]
Hmph!
You're driving me nuts!
[KYUTA]
Where...?
Geez. What is that kid up to?
Learning. He's the duckling.
You're the duck.
I'm not a duck, thank you.
How else does a child learn
but by imitating his father?
Not his father, either.
Listen.
He's trying to learn from you
the most basic way he can.
The same way a baby
learns from his father.
A baby, huh?
[KUMATETSU]
Hmph.
[KUMATETSU chuckles]
Look at Kumatetsu.
I think he's actually
enjoying this.
Well, every father
in the world enjoys it
when his son imitates him.
Doesn't he?
All right, kid.
How long are you gonna
keep this up for?
Being a copycat isn't going to
make you a good swordsman.
[KUMATETSU]
Hey! We're working, here.
Huh?
Earlier you said he was
driving you nuts, though.
[KUMATETSU]
Just go away, would ya?
Well, he's definitely changed
his tune, hasn't he?
When did that happen?
Strange, huh?
He must have developed a
fondness for his apprentice.
Hah! No way.
That would never happen to--
Seriously?!
[TATARA]
Oh, yeah? I'll show you!
How you like this?
Ha! That works for me!
[TATARA gasps]
I want to take it back!
[KUMATETSU]
Too late!
[TATARA]
Aw, come on! Come on!
[KUMATETSU]
Mwah!
[TATARA]
Please? This isn't fair!
I didn't mean to
discard that one!
[KUMATETSU laughs]
[KYUTA gasps]
I'm not watching...
I can't see...
But I know...
--[TATARA growls]
--[KUMATETSU laughs]
Time to try.
[KUMATETSU grunts]
[HYAKUSHUBO]
Hm?
[KUMATETSU]
Ow! Ow!
What's gotten into him?
Hey! Stupid kid! Stop it!
Huh...?
[KUMATETSU growls]
He can't possibly be...
Kyuta, how are you...?
[KYUTA] I spent so long
watching and copying his steps,
I can guess what
he's gonna do next.
[KUMATETSU]
What?! No way!
[yells]
[grunts]
You kicked his butt!
Good job, Kyuta!
Maybe you aren't as hopeless
as I thought you were!
Looks like you'll be learning
from him now, Kumatetsu.
Learn from him?
You're joking, right?!
[KYUTA]
I don't mind teaching you.
Huh?!
In exchange...
[KUMATETSU]
Exchange?
I still don't know how to
hold a sword or throw a punch.
I can't figure that out alone.
Will you please teach me?
--[KYUTA yelps]
--[CHICO squeaks]
[KUMATETSU chuckles]
Okay.
Now show me how you did that.
[KUMATETSU grunts]
Let my movements
tell you what to do.
Ow!
[KYUTA]
You follow me.
Good luck with that, kid.
Kumatetsu is one of
the most stubborn,
self-centered Beasts
I've ever met.
Following isn't
exactly something
that comes naturally to him.
He's never had anyone
to follow but himself.
Ow!
You have to let your
opponent be your guide!
Ow! I'm trying!
Well then, try harder!
Why, you little!
[snarls]
Fine. Let's keep going.
[BOTH grunting]
[KYUTA]
Haa... [grunts]
Haaa...!
Yaah!
[BOY BEAST E grunting]
Waaugh! [grunts]
[BOY BEAST F, BOY BEAST G yell]
[BOY BEASTS yell]
[JIROMARU]
I can still take you, human!
Jiromaru.
Yeah, that's my bet.
Uh-huh. Mine, too.
[JIROMARU grunting]
You!
[grunts]
[BOTH grunting]
[BOY & GIRL BEASTS gasp]
[JIROMARU grunts]
[SCARY BEASTS gasp]
[BOY & GIRL BEASTS gasp]
Wow, you're pretty strong!
Huh?
[JIROMARU] You're strong.
Strong guys are cool!
Hey, you should come
hang out at my house!
You'll like it! We've got candy!
What do you say?
Want to come over?
Haa...!
Finally.
Hyah!
Ah!
Slow down, guys.
Take a breath.
This isn't a contest.
I win. You do the dishes.
[KYUTA groans]
[HYAKUSHUBO] I can't believe it!
You've gotten so much taller.
Yeah, you think so?
[TATARA gasps]
What's wrong?
You can't be! You are!
[IOZEN] Hmm. He isn't
doing too badly, actually.
[LORD]
Not badly at all.
Much better than I would
have expected from a human.
The human isn't the one
I'm most impressed with.
[IOZEN]
Huh?
Can't you see it?
Kumatetsu has grown
more than the boy has.
His moves are sharper
and more refined.
You're right, they are.
Which is the master and
which the apprentice?
[LORD laughs]
You look taller and bigger,
So how old are you now?
That was quick.
I guess you really grew up,
now, didn't ya?
Kids tend to do that.
[YOUNG MAN BEAST]
Master Kumatetsu!
Please take me
as your apprentice.
It's my dream to become as
strong as Kyuta is someday.
Ah.
You seem determined. Very well.
[YOUNG MAN BEAST]
Thank you so much!
Now, just step to
the end of the line.
[YOUNG MAN BEAST]
Huh?
[TATARA] And there
will be a small,
non-refundable
introduction fee.
Eh, we've got nothing but
wimps and weaklings out there.
I doubt they'll
amount to anything. Huh?
How I train is my decision!
No, it's mine!
Kyuta is an adult now.
It's time to treat him like it.
Are you kidding?
Look at him! He's still
smooth and hairless.
I have hair, thank you!
Where?!
Calm down. You'll choke.
I win. Goodbye.
Hey!
We're not finished!
[KYUTA]
You do the dishes!
[KUMATETSU]
Stop, you brat!
[JIROMARU]
Huh? Hey, there's Kyuta!
You wanna come over?
[KYUTA]
Later!
[KUMATETSU]
Get back here!
Kyuta's really
something else, isn't he?
Kumatetsu's got
so many apprentices.
A fight between him and Dad
would be fun to watch.
I bet they're
really well matched.
[ICHIROHIKO]
Kumatetsu? Hah.
Don't compare that
lazy slob to Father.
Eh? What's wrong?
You're acting weird.
[ICHIROHIKO]
Nothing. I'm fine.
[KUMATETSU yells]
Where is he?
[KYUTA pants]
He's persistent,
I'll give him that much.
[CHICO squeaks]
[gasps]
This alley, it's...
[KYUTA] "And as for th-those
who b-by cha-chance.
cau-cau-caught
sight of him
in the b-beg-beginning."
[sighs]
[KYUTA]
Hey.
How do you say this?
"The White Whale."
Oh. "The White Whale."
--[phone rings]
--[STUDENTS laugh]
--[BOY STUDENT A] I told you.
--[BOY STUDENT B] You did?
[BOY STUDENT A]
Whatever.
[GIRL STUDENT A]
Shut up!
Hello?
They hung up!
[STUDENTS laugh]
Well? What?
[GIRL] Why don't
you guys take it outside?
[GIRL STUDENT A] And what
are we gonna do out there?
Whatever you want to.
I don't really care.
[GIRL STUDENT A]
Let's go.
[STUDENTS laugh]
[BOY STUDENT C]
What a nerd.
[GIRL STUDENT A] All alone?
That's no big surprise.
Who'd want to hang out with her?
[GIRL STUDENT B] Yeah, no wonder
she spends so much time reading.
Hey. What's the rush?
[GIRL]
Stop it!
[GIRL STUDENT A] We can do
whatever we want, remember?
[GIRL STUDENT B]
This is what we want to do.
You don't care, right?
--[BOY STUDENTS laugh]
--[GIRL STUDENT A cackles]
[GIRL STUDENT A]
Look at her squirm!
[GIRL]
Leave me alone.
[GIRL STUDENT B]
What a loser.
Look, we've got an audience!
Well, we're not gonna
have a problem, are we?
[BOY STUDENT A]
Since you didn't see anything.
Right?!
--[BOY STUDENT B] Lemme help.
--[BOY STUDENT C] Me too.
[BOY STUDENT A]
I said, "Right?"!
Hey, do you see what
he's wearing? What a freak!
[GIRL STUDENT B]
Heh, heh, heh. Totally.
--[blows land]
--[GIRL STUDENTS gasp]
[GIRL STUDENT B]
Let's go.
[BOY STUDENTS groan]
[GIRL] It doesn't matter
what school you go to,
there are always bullies.
I'm no fan of violence,
but... thank you.
You saved me.
They were real creeps.
[KYUTA]
I didn't save you.
[GIRL]
Yes, you did, actually.
Hey, uh, what's this say?
[GIRL]
Huh?
[KYUTA]
I don't read well.
I haven't gone to school
since I was nine.
Are you kidding?
Well, I'll just
have to teach you.
Then you can read
the book yourself.
Really?
[GIRL]
Sure.
Oh, by the way.
I'm Kaede.
Spelled K-A-E-D-E. Kaede.
And I'm, uh, I'm... Ren.
You spell it like...
[KAEDE]
Here, let me. Like this?
Uh-huh.
Nice to meet you.
[KAEDE giggles]
[KUMATETSU snores]
[KUMATETSU sneezes]
"Savage though
he was, and hideou--
[KUMATETSU]
Kyuta! Kyuta!
[KYUTA]
What is it?
You're late!
[KYUTA]
Don't shout!
[KUMATETSU]
Kyuta.
He said he was going out.
He goes out a lot.
He seems very busy these days.
Busy doing what?
[KAEDE] So you know how
Captain Ahab tells everybody
that he wants revenge on
the whale that took his leg?
Well, I think there's
more to it than that.
I think he's actually in
a battle against himself.
[KYUTA]
Against himself?
[KAEDE] Mm-hm. The whale
represents the captain.
It's a reflection of himself.
[KYUTA]
Oh, okay.
[KAEDE] I've never seen anyone
concentrate like you do.
You'll be doing my homework
for me before long.
[KYUTA] It helps that
you're a good teacher.
Think so?
[KYUTA] Absolutely.
And I know about teachers.
Trust me on that.
[KAEDE] Well, what about the
master who brought you up?
What kind of teacher is he?
[KYUTA]
A bad one.
[KAEDE giggles]
You two get along?
[KYUTA] Not at all.
We're always fighting.
[KAEDE] Oh, really?
I envy you, that.
[KYUTA]
Why?
Crazy, I know, but my
parents and I never fight.
[KYUTA]
Huh...?
It feels like I exist
to make them happy.
I do what they want me to.
They want me to get good grades,
so I spend all my time
inside a library.
They have no idea how I feel.
They don't know me at all.
Neither do I, really.
I know it sounds cheesy,
but I feel like I still don't
know who the real me is.
And I won't 'til I'm on my own.
So now I'm studying
not just for my parents,
but for myself, as well.
I'm going to get a scholarship
and move out. Away from them.
After that, whatever I do,
it will be on my own terms.
I'll live my own life.
Mine.
Not the one someone else
wants me to live.
[sighs]
I've never admitted that
to anybody before.
[grunts]
And it feels good!
You look happy.
Ren, I can only
teach you so much.
[gasps]
[KAEDE]
When it comes to that book,
there are teachers out there
who can help you understand it
better than I ever could.
A lot better.
Where do they teach?
Colleges. You should
think about going.
Me? That's crazy.
[KAEDE]
You can do it! I'll help you.
College? I don't think so.
You're not done learning yet.
There's more you want
to know, isn't there?
Yeah, there is.
[KAEDE] Well. In order
to get accepted anywhere,
you'll have to take
the college entrance exams.
A lot of people
don't realize it,
but there's a way
you can take them
even if you didn't
go to high school.
There's no way you'll pass.
[KAEDE, KYUTA]
Huh?
You said it's been years since
you've been in school, right?
Why not start off with
some night classes?
Something on the middle school
level might be appropriate.
[KAEDE]
Actually--
And if you do pass,
what are you gonna do then?
Have you thought about how
you're gonna pay tuition
without help from your parents?
People aren't really
falling all over themselves
to give out loans these days.
[KAEDE]
Well, even so...
What a miserable little man!
[KYUTA] It's impossible.
Let's just drop it.
[FEMALE ACADEMIC CLERK]
Please! Hang on a second!
I'm sorry about him.
I'll be happy to help you.
There's always somebody giving
out a scholarship of some sort.
And some companies even sponsor
students seeking a degree.
Though earning one will
depend on your scores.
[KAEDE gasps]
Thank you so much!
Yeah, I really appreciate it.
Math and science
will be on the exam.
I've never studied
either before.
Don't worry.
That's what you have me
here for. I'll teach you.
[intercom chimes]
[MALE ACADEMIC CLERK B]
A residence registry card
for college entrance
exams, right?
Unfortunately, it looks like
your old registration
has expired.
[KYUTA]
I figured.
However, it does appear
that your family registry
is still valid,
so it shouldn't be too difficult
to sort this out.
I'll just need you to confirm
your father's address.
Does that look correct?
[KAEDE]
He and your mom split up, right?
You lived with her.
[KYUTA]
Yeah, that's right.
I had no idea where he lived.
After all this time,
finding out was this easy?
[KAEDE]
Are you going to see him?
[KYUTA] I don't know if
I should. He might not like it.
He might have
forgotten all about me.
But... Maybe...
[KYUTA]
What should I write?
Throw me the ball, Dad!
[FATHER laughs]
Catch!
[FEMALE SHOP WORKER]
Excuse me, sir!
But is this yours?
[REN'S FATHER]
Huh? It is! Guess I forgot it.
Thank you for catching me.
[FEMALE SHOP WORKER]
No problem.
[KYUTA]
Uh...
[REN'S FATHER]
Yes?
Do you know me?
It's been awhile, but, maybe...
[KYUTA]
Of course not.
Never mind.
[YOUNG BOYS laughing]
[REN'S FATHER]
Ren...?
Ren! Is that you?
[KYUTA gasps]
[REN'S FATHER]
You've gotten so big!
I didn't recognize you!
[REN'S FATHER]
Where have you been?
Oh. Someone's been
looking after me.
For a while.
[REN'S FATHER]
You're alive! Thank God!
[REN'S FATHER sobs]
[REN'S FATHER]
I'm so sorry...
I should have been
the one looking after you.
It's okay.
[REN'S FATHER sobs]
[KAEDE]
Really? I'm so happy for you!
[KYUTA] Dad said
he didn't know about Mom
until a lot later.
When he heard I ran away,
he looked for me a long time.
Even after the police
had given up.
So I guess he didn't
forget about me.
[KAEDE]
Nope.
[GIRL STUDENT C]
Kaede!
Who are you with?
Is that your boyfriend?
[KAEDE]
He's my friend.
What's his name?
And where does he go?
[KAEDE]
Just drop it, will you?
[GIRLS laugh]
[KAEDE]
I'm sorry.
So, are things just
gonna be normal now?
Normal?
[KYUTA] I'll live with family
like an ordinary guy.
Study, find somewhere to work,
come home after work and
sleep like an ordinary guy.
I'll have an ordinary life.
That's not something
I'd ever really expected.
Except you seem unsure.
[KAEDE]
Is it because of your master?
[KUMATETSU]
Where were you?
[KYUTA]
We need to talk. It's serious.
[KUMATETSU]
You haven't been training?
[KYUTA]
Listen. Lately, I--
[KUMATETSU]
You've been what, goofing off?
[HYAKUSHUBO]
Listen to what he has to say.
First, explain this for me.
I found it under your mattress.
What is it?
--I wanna go to a human school.
--[KUMATETSU] Huh?
I want to learn the things
I can't learn here.
[KUMATETSU] You don't have
time for human school.
You've got more
important things to do.
Or don't you want
to become strong?
I'm already strong.
Huh?! You're kidding, right?
Kumatetsu.
I'm strong enough.
Wanna show me which
part of you is strong? Huh?!
It's always like this
when I try to talk to you.
You don't even pretend to
listen to what I'm saying.
You just start yelling.
Tell me, brat!
Which part of you is strong?
[KYUTA]
Forget it.
[KUMATETSU]
Wait! Where are you going?
Something else
I need to tell you.
I know where my dad is now.
I'll go live with him.
I just decided.
[KUMATETSU]
Kyuta! Hold on!
Don't go.
Move it.
Make me!
[grunts]
Don't go!
[KUMATETSU]
Kyuta! Kyuta!
[KAEDE]
Well, how did it go?
Did you make up your mind?
Still not sure, huh?
It doesn't really
matter anymore.
I'm meeting up with my dad now.
That ought to settle everything.
You can take it slower.
[KYUTA]
Why would I need to?
Well, I'll be at
the library all day.
Come by and see me if you want.
[KUMATETSU]
No! No, no, no!
[TRAINEE BEAST A]
We're sorry.
[KUMATETSU]
Why can't you get it right?!
Are you all idiots?
We're sorry, sir!
[KUMATETSU]
Stop apologizing!
[TRAINEE BEASTS]
We're sorry, sir!
[KUMATETSU]
Bah!
Idiots! All of them!
I can't believe Kyuta's father
showed up after all this time.
Is he really going to live
in the human world now?
[TATARA]
Of course he is. You heard him.
[HYAKUSHUBO] Hm. But without him
around, Kumatetsu will go back
to being sloppy
and irresponsible.
Heh. What do you mean "will"?
[KUMATETSU]
Shut up!
You're gonna crack
someone's skull!
[HYAKUSHUBO]
This is hard on him.
He thought of himself as
Kyuta's father, you know.
[TATARA]
He did?
[KUMATETSU sighs]
[growls]
Ren!
I thought we could make a
ham omelet for dinner tonight.
Does that sound good?
[REN'S FATHER clears throat]
[REN'S FATHER]
So, tell me about this man
who's been taking care of you.
I wanna hear all about him.
[KYUTA]
Huh?
Of course,
I wanna meet him, too.
So I can thank him
for everything.
And let him know that
you'll be living with me now.
Hold on a second.
[REN'S FATHER]
Hm? Why, what's wrong?
[KYUTA]
It's just--
This is moving really
quickly, you know?
[REN'S FATHER]
You're right. Sorry.
See, the thing is, time passes
quicker the older you get.
Sounds weird,
I know, but it's true.
So, for me, living
with you and your mom,
well, that feels like
it was only yesterday.
Yesterday?
[REN'S FATHER]
Give me another shot.
We'll start fresh, you and me.
From now on, I'll hang back
and follow your lead.
I know these past years
have been tough.
[KYUTA]
How can we ever start fresh?
[REN'S FATHER]
Huh?
And what makes you think
I've had it tough?
What do you know
about me or my life?
Ren.
You don't know
anything about me!
You weren't there!
I-I'm sorry.
[KYUTA sighs]
[KYUTA]
You don't know. How could you?
I haven't told you anything.
Sorry. I have to go.
[REN'S FATHER]
No dinner?
[KYUTA]
No.
Ren, I meant what I said about
following your lead, okay?
But remember something!
If you ever need me,
I'll do anything for you.
Anything!
Ren!
[KYUTA]
What's wrong with me?
Why did I go off
on Dad like that?
Don't go.
[KYUTA]
Why am I thinking about him?
We'll start fresh...
[KYUTA]
Stop!
Don't go!
What should I do?!
[KYUTA pants]
[car horn honks]
That looks like...
[KYUTA]
I hate them.
Hate... them... Hate them.
...me as a boy.
A hole?
[gasps]
It's gone!
[yells]
[KYUTA yelling]
[KAEDE]
Ren?
What's up?
You look... different.
A little scary.
[KYUTA]
Can you tell me?
What am I?
Am I a human?
Am I a Beast?
[KAEDE]
A beast?
Or neither?
Am I a monster now?
[KAEDE]
What are you saying?
[KYUTA]
Which is it?
Tell me! What am I?
Stop. This isn't you.
[KAEDE gasps]
What am I, then?
Tell me!
[KYUTA grunts]
[KAEDE whimpers]
I know how you feel.
Sometimes I get
frustrated like that, too.
Like I've got so much
anger inside me,
my heart is going to
explode with it.
And it's not just us.
Everyone feels it.
We all have bad moments.
Ren, it's okay. All right?
It'll be okay.
Thank you for that.
I'm calmer now.
But I should go.
Hey.
[KAEDE] A bookmark
from my favorite book.
It doesn't look like much.
But it's saved me
a bunch of times.
I'll let you hang
onto it for now, okay?
If you start feeling
that way again.
Just remember. I'm on your side.
[BEASTS chattering]
[KYUTA]
It's so busy. What's going on?
[JIROMARU]
Kyuta!
You wanna come to my place?
Out of nowhere, the lord
finally set the date.
The whole town is excited.
[KYUTA]
Date for what?
I'm glad you could stop by.
Great. Thanks for the tea, Mom.
Anyway, tomorrow's the day.
My father and your master
are fighting the big match.
We'll find out who's gonna
be the next lord of th--
Are you saying you didn't know?
We got into a fight
about something.
So it's been awhile
since I've seen him.
Oh yeah?
I haven't seen much of
my dad either, to be honest.
He's always busy training.
It sucks, but oh well.
Even if you're mad
at your master,
you don't want him
to lose, right?
Hey, come with me.
We'll watch the match together
and cheer them on.
Sure, okay.
And no matter who ends up the
winner, we're still friends.
Yeah, of course.
[JIROMARU]
I hope it's a good match.
[KYUTA]
Me, too.
[KYUTA, JIROMARU laugh]
[ICHIROHIKO]
Jiromaru.
Oh, hey.
[ICHIROHIKO]
Kyuta's got better things to do
than listen to you ramble.
Look, it's near sundown already.
Come with me.
I'll take you to the gate.
Well, thank you.
Bye.
[ICHIROHIKO grunts]
[ICHIROHIKO
"A good match"?
Yeah, right! Everyone
knows who's going to win.
Kumatetsu may have
cleaned up his act some,
and you may have
gotten stronger.
But he's still a lazy slob and
you're still just a human.
Know your place!
[KYUTA groans]
What's gotten into you?
[ICHIROHIKO]
Hmph.
[gasps]
[KYUTA]
That hole...
It's the same as mine.
[KYUTA]
Why?
[BEASTS cheer]
[cheering continues]
[BEAST GIRL A] So who are you
going to cheer for?
[BEAST WOMAN F]
I haven't made up my mind yet.
It'll be Iozen.
No, Kumatetsu.
I don't know!
I just can't decide!
I just could not decide.
For nine years.
I thought and thought
and thought some more.
And at long last,
I have made a decision.
So what did you choose, sir?
What god are you
going to become?
I will be the god
of decisiveness!
[BEASTS cheer]
Once my successor is determined,
we will hold the
reincarnation ceremony.
[BEAST REFEREE]
Your attention, please!
We will now begin the match
that will determine
the new lord of Jutengai.
The candidates may enter!
[BEASTS cheer]
Wow. Compared to
his apprentices,
yours don't really
look like much.
It would be better
if Kyuta were here.
You might want to get
your game face on.
You're looking pretty gloomy.
[KUMATETSU growls]
[roars]
[TATARA]
Or that.
[IOZEN roars]
[BEASTS cheer]
[BEAST REFEREE]
The rules are as follows.
You may not draw your swords
from their scabbards.
They are to remain sheathed.
If you flee, you lose.
If you are knocked out and
fail to rise for ten seconds,
you lose.
Established fighting etiquette
is to be observed at all times.
Are the candidates ready?
Start the match!
[KUMATETSU pants]
Already?!
[IOZEN grunts]
He's pushing himself too hard.
He needs to hold
something back for later!
[KUMATETSU roars]
Dad!
[ICHIROHIKO]
Shut up and watch!
[roars]
[KUMATETSU growls]
[BEASTS cheering]
--[ICHIROHIKO] There, you see?
--Yeaah!
[KUMATETSU roars]
[TATARA, HYAKUSHUBO groan]
[KUMATETSU groans]
[KUMATETSU yells]
--[BEASTS cheer]
--[gasps]
[KUMATETSU]
My sword!
[IOZEN growls]
[ICHIROHIKO]
Take him out!
[KUMATETSU grunts]
Not looking good.
He should really try dodging.
[KUMATETSU groans, grunts]
Is it over?
That was a short match.
[IOZEN growls]
[KUMATETSU grunts]
Are you gonna let him
beat you like that?!
[KUMATETSU groans]
[gasps]
[IOZEN growls]
[KUMATETSU yells]
[KYUTA gasps]
[BEASTS cheer]
[BEAST REFEREE]
One.
Two.
Three!
Four.
Five.
Six.
Seven.
Eight.
Kyuta!
Ni--
[BEAST MAN T]
It's Kyuta!
[BEAST MAN U]
Kumatetsu's top apprentice!
[BEAST MAN V]
That guy?
He came back!
[gasps]
Help him, Kyuta!
Say something encouraging!
What are you doing, you idiot?!
Get up, already!
Go away. Why are you here?
Nobody wants see your ugly face.
Do you know how
pathetic you look?!
[KUMATETSU]
What did you say?!
[KYUTA]
It's embarrassing!
Are they actually bickering?
In the middle of a match?
Why are they always like this?
Do they have no self-control?
Stop sulking and get up!
You've got a match to win, here!
You're wasting your time.
I didn't need you to come.
I'm not gonna lose!
[KUMATETSU roars]
[BEASTS cheer]
[IOZEN grunts]
[KUMATETSU growls]
What?
[BEASTS cheer]
[TATARA sighs]
I guess it's not over.
This is starting
to get interesting.
[KUMATETSU growls]
[IOZEN growls]
[BOTH grunt]
[KUMATETSU grunting]
To the right!
Then back! Now counter!
[KUMATETSU grunting]
Under! Over!
--[KUMATETSU chuckles]
--[IOZEN grunts]
He's smiling.
It's like he's enjoying this.
The look on his face--
It's the same as when
he's training with Kyuta.
But it's a match.
A really important one.
[KOKURAN DOJIN] His mind has
transcended the present.
He can react before
his opponent moves.
He's achieved
complete concentration.
A state of non-ego.
Kumatetsu could never
have won on his own.
But... with the two of them
fighting together.
[KUMATETSU grunting]
Come on, Dad. You can do it!
[IOZEN, KUMATETSU grunting]
Ah! He's really losing!
[ICHIROHIKO]
Shut up!
What's that for?!
Kyuta. Stupid human!
Always interfering!
[IOZEN yells]
[KUMATETSU grunting]
You've gotta push!
Don't let him overpower you!
Give him everything you've got!
[KUMATETSU yells]
[BOTH grunt]
Now, kick!
[KUMATETSU roars]
[IOZEN]
Wha--?!
[KUMATETSU]
[gasping, yelling]
[LORD sighs]
[KUMATETSU growls]
One last punch!
[roars]
[BEAST REFEREE]
One.
Two.
Three.
Four.
Five. Six.
Seven. Eight. Nine.
Ten!
And the winner of
the match is Kumatetsu!
[BEASTS cheer]
[IOZEN groans]
You really had
me worried there.
I never ask you
to worry about me.
I'm still surprised you won.
Really? 'Cause I'm not.
Idiot. The ref made it to nine.
Shut up.
[BEASTS cheer]
[KUMATETSU chuckles]
[laughs]
[BEAST REFEREE] All hail
the new lord of Jutengai!
[cheering continues]
[TATARA, HYAKUSHUBO laugh]
[cheering]
[SCARY BEASTS cheering]
He is a worthy son.
Let's go.
[LORD chuckles]
Huh...?
The sword. It's gone!
[gasps]
[KYUTA gasps]
Huh. What's this red stuff?
Kyuta... what's going on...?
[ICHIROHIKO cackles]
[IOZEN gasps]
Look, Father!
With the power of my
telekinesis and your sword,
we've made things right!
You're the true winner!
A lazy slob like him
couldn't defeat you--
not in a million years!
You know it's true, Kyuta!
You know!
Please stop, Ichirohiko!
This is it!
One more push and it's finished.
Watch me, Father!
[squelching]
--[KUMATETSU groans]
--[BEASTS gasp]
[screaming]
[ICHIROHIKO laughs]
[ICHIROHIKO] Finally getting
what you deserve, Kyuta!
It's over! All hail
the new lord, my father--
You damned fool!
The match is over and done with!
[ICHIROHIKO laughs]
[TATARA gasps]
What is that thing?!
A hole?
Resist it, Kyuta!
How dare you!
[JIROMARU gasps]
Hold firm! Reject the Darkness!
Please, no!
Not you, too, Kyuta!
How is this happening?!
[KYUTA snarls]
[yelling]
[CHICO squeaks]
[KYUTA grunts]
[gasps]
[ICHIROHIKO whimpers]
[ICHIROHIKO]
Kyuta...
I hate you.
It's happening.
The Darkness is
swallowing Ichirohiko!
[ICHIROHIKO]
I will never forgive you.
[gasps]
Wha--?
Where? Where... is he?
[pants]
Hey. Quit playing.
Get up.
Just get up.
[KUMATETSU]
Kyuta.
Kyuta!
Slow!
You're always too slow!
Get up already.
Time to practice!
[KYUTA groans]
[CHICO squeaking]
[KYUTA]
Chico...?
[CHICO squeaking]
What's happening?
What's wrong?
[CHICO squeaking]
[gasps]
[KUMATETSU groans]
[whimpers]
[sobs]
[IOZEN]
I'm sorry...
Ichirohiko, I'm sorry.
[LORD] A Beast could never be
gifted with telekinesis
as strongly
as Ichirohiko was.
It's obvious that his power
was augmented by the Darkness
that dwells within
the human heart.
[IOZEN]
Sir, are you saying...?
Have you known the truth
about this whole time?
Well, Iozen. I'm waiting
for an explanation.
[baby crying]
[crying continues]
[IOZEN]
In that moment,
I decided to raise
him as my own son.
I would tell nobody of the truth
of how I had found him.
I knew about the Darkness,
of course,
but I assumed that if
I raised him correctly,
it would remain dormant.
Thinking about it now,
I realize what a fool I was.
What a presumptuous fool.
[ICHIROHIKO]
What's wrong with my tusks?
Why aren't they growing
like yours, father?
[IOZEN] Don't worry, son.
They will one day.
[ICHIROHIKO]
What's wrong with my snout?
Why isn't it growing
like yours, father?
[IOZEN]
Don't worry, son.
It will one day.
[ICHIROHIKO]
Father. Who am I, really?
[IOZEN]
Ichirohiko, listen to me.
You are my son.
Never doubt that.
You are the son of Iozen.
[LORD] The more you
tried to convince him,
the more he doubted himself.
That doubt festered inside him
like an unclean wound.
It became anger and
strengthened the Darkness.
Tragic, is it not?
That the peaceful
world of Beasts
could create such a great
hole in a human's heart.
[JIROMARU]
Who cares about all that?
I may not always
be the smartest guy.
I don't know where my brother's
from or what's wrong with him,
but I do know that he's
my brother, no matter what!
Oh, Jiromaru.
Lord, tell me.
Is there nothing
I can do to help my son?
I'm responsible!
I'm the one who
brought him here.
Can't I bring him back again and
find a way to make him whole?
You must realize that Ichirohiko
is no longer the boy you knew.
He is lost and drifting.
No one can do anything for him
unless the Darkness that
possesses him is driven out.
[TATARA]
Kyuta.
Are you really going to
run out on Kumatetsu?
[TATARA]
You idiot!
Seeking revenge, are you?!
Just what do you
hope to accomplish?!
[TATARA]
Maybe we should all stay calm.
[HYAKUSHUBO]
I will not stay calm!
I'm not always as
nice and friendly
as the rest of you
seem to think I am!
Kumatetsu's in there
lying close to death!
Haven't you learned anything?!
[HYAKUSHUBO sighs]
You're still going to go,
though, aren't you?
Thank you for yelling at me.
I'm glad you
care enough to do it.
But I'm not leaving
because I want revenge.
Ichirohiko and I are the same.
I could easily have been the one
swallowed by Darkness today,
but in the end, I wasn't
because of the people
I was lucky enough
to have been raised by.
Including you. Both of you.
So, thanks.
Kyuta, please... Listen...
I can't stay here.
I have to do something.
Ichirohiko's Darkness
is mine, as well.
We share it.
Please understand. I have to go.
Look after him.
[HYAKUSHUBO sighs]
[TATARA]
Of course we understand!
You do what you need to do.
Leave Kumatetsu to us!
You get going now.
We've got it covered.
It's okay.
[TATARA sobs]
[HYAKUSHUBO] He believes
he was saved from the Darkness
by the people who raised him?
Us included?
I'm still not really sure
how that happened.
We did spend a lot
of time around him,
ever since he was
just a little boy.
Yeah.
I remember him back then.
He was a cocky brat.
We went to see
him every day,
even though he was a human and
someone else's apprentice.
And gave him
our sage advice,
not that he was ever
grateful for it.
Now suddenly, here he is
looking so tall and grown up.
Making decisions on
his own like an adult.
I couldn't be prouder of him.
No. Neither could I.
[KUMATETSU groans]
[BOTH gasp]
[KUMATETSU grunts]
[HYAKUSHUBO]
Kumatetsu!
[KAEDE]
It's Ren.
[FEMALE NEWS REPORTER] This is
just the latest in a long line
of credit card fraud cases
the police have been
investigating this year.
Officials say that the rise
in white collar crime
will likely continue worldwide
as technology progresses
beyond the scope of what
law enforcement agents
are able to cope with.
More and more frequently...
[KYUTA] Here. I want you
to hold onto this.
Your book?
Why? What's wrong?
I can't explain now, but
there's something I need to do.
It could turn out badly for me,
and if it does, I probably
won't see you again.
So take it.
Let me help you.
You already have helped me.
Don't you see?
You helped me realize
how big the world is.
You gave me the chance
to learn things
I never would have without you.
And you can keep learning!
Please don't do this!
[KYUTA]
I have to go now.
But I'm glad I got to know you.
And...
Well, thanks for everything.
Don't go!
Just tell me what's wrong.
I'm sure together we can
figure out something.
[CHICO squeaks]
[ICHIROHIKO]
Kyuta!
[gasps]
[ICHIROHIKO]
I hate you.
[KAEDE gasps]
Stupid human.
You ruin everything.
This can't happen here!
What is that?
[KYUTA]
It's dangerous. Go.
[KAEDE whimpers]
Get out of here! Now!
[KAEDE whines]
[KAEDE]
I'm not letting go.
[KYUTA growls]
[CHICO squeaks]
[KYUTA]
Okay.
[FEMALE PEDESTRIAN A screams]
[KYUTA]
We have to run faster!
[PEDESTRIANS grunting]
[KYUTA gasps]
[screaming]
--[KYUTA] Stay back!
--[KAEDE screams]
[KAEDE grunts]
[KYUTA grunts]
[ICHIROHIKO growls]
[KYUTA yells]
[ICHIROHIKO yells]
[BOTH yelling]
[KAEDE gasps]
[CROWD]
[FEMALE ONLOOKER A]
What's going on?!
[MALE ONLOOKER A]
Filming a TV show maybe?
[ICHIROHIKO, KYUTA grunting]
[ICHIROHIKO yells]
[KYUTA grunts]
[ICHIROHIKO giggles]
--[KYUTA yells]
--[ICHIROHIKO gasps]
[KYUTA growls]
[ICHIROHIKO grunts]
[ICHIROHIKO chuckles]
[KYUTA gasps]
[KYUTA screams]
[KYUTA grunts]
[KAEDE gasps]
Are you okay?!
[CROWD gasping, screaming]
[KYUTA groans, gasps]
[KYUTA]
Quick! Let's get outta here.
Lead him somewhere else.
[ICHIROHIKO]
A whale, huh?
[KYUTA]
Turn around!
That direction isn't safe!
Why's no one listening?
What is that?
[MALE PEDESTRIAN D]
A big shadow?
[MALE ONLOOKER B]
It looks like a--
[FEMALE ONLOOKER B]
What? Is that a whale?
Get out of the truck!
Do it now!
[CROWD gasping]
[KAEDE, KYUTA gasp]
[MALE DRIVER A]
Whoa! Hey! What's happening?
[MALE DRIVER B] Move!
We need to get outta here!
[KYUTA]
Run!
[KAEDE screams]
--[grunts]
--Kaede!
[KAEDE groans]
[CROWD gasping, murmuring]
[screaming]
How can I stop him?
There must be a way.
[KAEDE gasps]
Let's go!
[KYUTA]
Where are we going?
[KYUTA] How can I fight
whatever it is he's become?
[KYUTA] Maybe that's a
use for my empty soul.
I could trap him inside
the hole that's in me.
Then I could stab myself
and put an end to both of us
at the same time.
That's it.
The only thing
I can think of to do.
[KAEDE]
It's funny.
I've been asking myself
the same question over and over.
Why didn't I just
let go of your hand?
Why did I keep
running alongside you?
I mean, I don't think I've ever
been so scared in my life.
But, you know,
I remembered something.
The first time we
studied together.
It was the happiest
I'd been in a while.
I know that must sound crazy,
but I've never met anyone
who enjoys learning
as much as you do.
It's pretty inspiring.
When I'm with you, I just--
I feel like I can do anything.
Like I'm suddenly stronger.
So I want to be there to give
you strength when you need it.
If you're fighting something,
then I'm fighting it, too.
Don't forget, okay?
You're not alone.
It doesn't matter
how scared I am.
I'm not letting go of your hand.
Kaede, I...
[TRAIN ANNOUNCEMER] May I
have your attention, please?
Due to a fire near Shibuya,
the train cannot
proceed any further.
This will be our final stop.
[BEASTS gasping]
[BEAST ELDER MAN A]
Why is the ground shaking?
[BEAST MAN W]
It's Ichirohiko's doing.
He's wreaking havoc
in the human world.
[BEAST ELDER MAN B]
What occurs in their world
may resonate in ours,
but I've never known it to
happen to such an extent.
This is a conflict
between two humans
and yet it seems we're
being dragged into it.
[BEAST ELDER MAN C]
This is exactly why humans
shouldn't be accepted
into our world!
[BEAST ELDERS]
Hm?
[LORD]
Huh?
[KUMATETSU grunts]
[TATARA whimpers]
Lay down!
What are you doing?!
You'll kill yourself!
You've been badly injured.
You shouldn't be out of bed yet.
Back off.
I don't need to be
lying in bed right now.
I need to be out there.
Helping him.
Kumatetsu.
And what exactly do
you think you can do?!
[KUMATETSU]
Actually...
..the lord has to
do something first.
He knows what I'm talking about.
Maybe he wants to
explain it to everybody.
What's he suggesting?
What do you expect
the lord to do?
Kyuta is stubborn.
He thinks he can do
everything on his own.
But he's wrong about that.
He will need help.
I know I'm not worth much.
But even a foolish
master like me
can still help his apprentice.
I'm going fill his soul with
whatever strength he needs
to win this battle.
I may be a fool
and a bum and a slob,
but for him I can be strong!
--[distant explosion]
--[BEASTS screaming]
[LORD]
Hm...
You have changed
a great deal, Kumatetsu.
A very great deal.
You see, what he
is asking me to do
is to give him the right
to reincarnate.
You're joking.
He's asking to become a god?
Absurd.
That isn't something
granted to just any Beast.
Yes! Only the lord is given
the chance to reincarnate.
[gasping]
And now...
...Kumatetsu is the lord.
[LORD]
Think carefully, Kumatetsu.
Once you decide to do this,
there can be no turning back.
So tell me, are you sure?
It is as I thought it would be.
Looking at your eyes,
I can tell there is no trace
of doubt in your heart.
[KYUTA gasps]
[KYUTA]
There he is.
Where'd he go?
[KAEDE gasps]
[KAEDE, KYUTA gasp]
Hurry!
You should go now.
He won't notice. He's after me.
Kaede!
[KAEDE]
What do want, huh?!
To hunt down your enemy
and rip him apart?
To destroy him?
Do you really think that
will make you happy?
You may look like
some giant monster,
but you're just a human
after petty vengeance!
Don't you get it?
We all carry darkness inside us!
Ren does, and so do I!
It's not just you.
But we can fight back.
I'm fighting it right now,
and believe me, it isn't easy.
But you didn't even try.
You just let it swallow you up.
And that makes
you weaker than us.
You're not going to win,
do you hear me?!
[WHALE bellows]
Come on!
[KYUTA, KAEDE grunting]
Wait, come back!
[KYUTA]
I have no choice.
Ichirohiko! Look!
I'm going to take the Darkness
from you into myself!
[CHICO squeaks]
[squeals]
Ren, no. No!
You and I are leaving now.
We're not fit for this world.
No! Stop it!
[KYUTA yells]
Don't let it take you!
[yelling continues]
--[TATARA] Kyuta!
--[KYUTA gasps]
[WHALE moans]
[KYUTA]
What in the--?
[TATARA]
Kyuta! The sword is Kumatetsu!
He thought you
might need some help,
so he reincarnated
into that sword.
Is that really... you?
[TATARA]
He chose what to become.
He said he would be
the sword in your soul.
The sword in my... my soul.
[KUMATETSU]
You have one, don't you?
[KYUTA] What?
You don't make any sense.
How much clearer do you
need me to make it for you?
You grab the sword
that's in your soul.
[KYUTA whimpers]
[KUMATETSU laughs]
Not bad for a human kid!
I knew I was right about you.
[KUMATETSU] Well, now you're a
nine-year-old named Kyuta.
Now we're in business!
I hope you are ready for
some serious training!
[KUMATETSU laughs]
[KYUTA whimpers]
[KUMATETSU]
Kyuta!
What are you doing? Stop crying!
[gasps]
You know how much
I hate crybabies.
Shut up! I'm not crying!
[KYUTA grunts]
[ICHIROHIKO grunts]
[KUMATETSU]
Now, get ready.
--Okay, kid.
--Careful.
[KUMATETSU]
Not yet.
Keep your senses
sharp and watch.
There!
[KYUTA] He appears in human form
just before the whale leaps out.
Gotcha!
[KUMATETSU]
Focus on a single point.
Strike there and
do not hesitate.
[KUMATETSU]
Now! Go!
[KYUTA grunts]
[KYUTA, KUMATETSU yelling]
[ICHIROHIKO rasps]
[ICHIROHIKO screams]
[WHALE moans]
He did it. Right?
No.
[gasps]
[ICHIROHIKO]
You stupid human...
I hate you...
Ichirohiko.
You and I are the same.
We were raised by Beasts,
but born with human hearts.
This isn't my bedroom.
Where am I?
Father, Mother?
You're here, too? And Jiromaru?
I don't understand
what's going on here.
I remember us all going to
the stadium together, but then.
[ICHIROHIKO groans]
I've seen this.
It's Kyuta's.
[KUMATETSU]
Snap out of it.
When I decide to do
something, it gets done.
One way or another.
[KYUTA sighs]
Trust me, I know.
Then quit brooding, already,
or I'll kick your butt
from the inside.
Shut up. I'm not brooding.
Now that's more like it!
[KUMATETSU chuckles]
I'll do whatever I want.
You just watch me.
Oh! You can bet
I'll be watching you.
[KYUTA chuckles]
[KUMATETSU chuckles]
[MALE NEWS REPORTER] An enormous
explosion occurred last night
in Shibuya, caused by the crash
of an unmanned runaway truck.
Many people were injured
as they fled the scene,
however, none of the injuries
were reported as critical.
Police received numerous
perplexing reports
of a mysterious shadow
that appeared to be
shaped like a whale.
Nothing matching this
description was caught
on any of the area's
security cameras.
[BEASTS cheering]
[HYAKUSHUBO]
Impressive, huh?
But he wasn't always like this.
Even our Kyuta
started out as a weakling.
In other words, there is hope.
If you mind your master and
train very hard every day,
you runts might actually
become strong, too.
[TRAINEE BEASTS gasp]
There may be a chance.
A very slim chance.
[TRAINEE BEASTS sigh]
Why did I spend so many
years dithering?
I should have reincarnated
when I had the chance!
I could be a god right now if
I'd just made up my mind sooner.
This is no time for regrets.
It's a day of celebration.
Cheers! To Kyuta!
Ah! And look over there.
From what I understand,
that young lady was instrumental
in Kyuta's success.
Kaede! What are you doing here?
[KAEDE laughs]
I was invited, silly.
And here, I dropped it
that night,
and it wasn't exactly
easy to find again.
I thought you'd like it back.
I would. Thanks.
And an application
for the entrance exams.
What do you say?
Do you still wanna
give it a try?
[KYUTA sighs]
I know a lot's happened,
but I thought, maybe...
I'll do it.
[gasps]
Yay! Heh!
I knew you were gonna say that!
We'll study together, 'kay?
[BEAST MAN X]
The fireworks are starting!
[BEASTS cheer]
Hey!
[BOTH laugh]
[HYAKUSHUBO]
After that, Kyuta left Jutengai
and the world of the Beasts.
He never held a sword again.
[TATARA] Even so, there
is no stronger swordsman.
[HYAKUSHUBO]
That's right.
Because in his soul there is
a sword called Kumatetsu.
And no one else can say that.
[TATARA] He can overcome any
obstacle that stands in his path
because he won't
have to do it alone.
[CHICO squeaks]
[REN'S MOTHER]
I'm so happy for you, Ren.
[KUMATETSU laughs]